Ahhh this guy... He's the nightmre of everyone who he can't control with power or see with his chaos energy vision. He is filled with a thing I call ICE which means basicly Internal Chaos Energy for short. If a being has a lot of it, their base form starts to deform and change up into the looks and power caps of the Super Form which I described Sonic having. The highest it will go is up to the power of 1 super emerald or 7 chaos emeralds. At that point, your body is basicly the described Super Form, which I think is obvious that this current being called Crimson has. It also changes how the body reacts.. It makes it more prone to anger and want of chaos around with no order. I have only seen him use of his forms, which is still terrifying on its own. When EVEN IN HIS BASE FORM, he's able to make a planet-sized blast in the palm with the same power as a planet, including mass and energy capacity, of his hand and send it with little effort twards his target at high speeds. His own power cap is so strong, that his super form could be treated as a Huper form of some beings. I'm starting to think he can challange timewire at this point..
There's also an ICE procentage, or how mutch chaos energy can your body utilize when its given. And the fact Crimson's ICE% is equal to 100% is why he can turn on chaos-based transformations with enough anger. And if he can use the emeralds to do so? You better run to a different part of the multiverse and hope he can't find you.. that is.. if he's mad at you, just like he is at me..

Form chart of Crimson:
- Super Form
The characteristics here are closer to the ones of the SSJB form of Goku than the ones of a Super Form. The fact he is basicly a ticking bomb, he can easily beat a hyper form with enough anger in this state. 

Crimson T. Hedgehog is too powerful to be even approached if not certain he won't attack you.. Just if you want ot come closer, make sure he is not angry or you won't make him angry.. which in my example is basicly me being able to breathe, since I lack the ICE and ICE% which both are equal to 0. Thus it makes him mad enough for him to attack me when he finaly sees me, since he can't track me with the Chaos Energy sense..

The only issue is that ICE inproves your base stats passively, for eample ICE=0 and ATK=10 is less poweful than ICE=10 and ATK=10. Basicly. Crimson has the stats stronger than Sonic's super form while he's in use of his base form, while I have literaly no strength. And also mor ICE reacts with higher damage to lower ICE, AKA crimson's punch inflcts more damage to me than it would to Flow for example